---
layout: post
title: "Starting Another Week"
date: 10-09-2017
author: Chad Purdy
description: About my preparation for the 2nd week of the year
tags:
- blogs
categories:
- blogs
permalink: /week2/
---
It's Sunday night and my mind is racing, trying to organize my thoughts about plans for the coming week.  This is always the busiest day of the week for me.  I tend to have a lot of last-minute ideas that I try to implement in a limited amount of time.  

This year will be different though, for a few reasons.  I don't think I'm going to be able to put something together last minute.  I feel like there is going to have to be a lot of deliberate planning, in particular with starter code and projects.  I'm still waiting on the materials from A+ Computer Science.  I'm hoping that will help guide some of my thinking.  

I sort of also just want to get into the College Board provided projects ASAP so that students get a feel for a little bit bigger projects.  I don't want to overwhelm them either.  That's why this past week, I've already fallen behind by a full day (maybe two).  And that's not including the full week that Hurrican Harvey put us behind.  I will have to find time to catch-up, but I really want the students to have a solid foundation and not feel rushed from the get-go.  

My biggest fear, having taught AP Calculus for a few years, is running out of time to teach all of the topics.  I don't like the idea of setting my kids up for failure.  It's too early to tell right now, but I need to stay hyper-sensitive to my established timeline to be sure there is time to get to it all.   
