---
layout: post
title: "So far, So..."
date: 2018-09-11
author: Chad Purdy
description: Quick update
tags: 
- blog
- 2018
categories:
- blog
permalink: /so-far//

---
Into week 3, and so far, so good!  My CS1 classes are really doing well and seem to be finding the material interesting and fun.  I think I've already heard more, "This is cool!!"s than I heard all of last year.  We just started the turtle.  They can make it draw in straight lines.  And yet, they say, "WOW! THIS IS AWESOME!"  They ain't seen nothing yet! :)

My Pre-AP group is doing a fantastic job as well.  It's really a good mix of my more interested students from last year and they're really gung-ho about learning so far.  We started with digital circuits and boolean algebra.  We capped off the activities with bread boards and logic gates.  Unfortunately, the power supplies I got (2 D batteries) apparently weren't enough to consistently light the LEDs through the logic gates.  Oh well, live and learn.  I think the students got the idea, but it didn't turn out quite as well as I'd hoped.

Tomorrow I'm going to reintroduce the PreAP class to Git.  This year, they're going to be submitting projects via Github...I'm going to be kind of figuring things out as I go.  Should be fun! (No sarcasm).

OnRamps is going great too!  The students are really getting into the mystery and I think they're enjoying the creative side and messing around with Google Sites.  I still kind of wish we were using an actual Wiki to be honest. I may give that feedback to the UT people later for next year.  We'll see how it goes though.
